### This chapter focuses on analysing the appearance of public political figures across <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span> and <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span>. The analysis has been carried out using teaser images from articles. Using face recognition, teaser images containing people were automatically extracted and grouped based on similarity, then manually labelled. The result is a dataset mapping all appearances and co-appearances of political actors together with other public features.

Images – especially photographs and photographic collages – are integral to news. Initially considered a neutral addition to articles, images have moved over time from didascalic representation of events to constructing entire narratives, evoking emotions and generating engagement (Barnhurst and Nerone, 2001). Contemporary theories emphasize this epistemic transition and oppose the idea of images as objective accounts of reality (Sontag, 1977). This understanding of newsworthy images becomes especially relevant in the context of political journalism. Vos and Van Aelst (2017) have shown that differences in political systems influence the quantity and diversity of news coverage about national politicians. In proportional election systems journalistic coverage is more diverse than in majoritarian systems, due to local politicians still enjoying good visibility over the national political scene (ibid.). These and many other pieces of evidence (Boomgaarden et al. (2016), Caprini (2023)) point to the important role images have in our news consumption. Latching on to this discourse, and motivated by the different political and social contexts of Zeit Online and The New York Times, this chapter focuses on showcasing the different ways political personas get represented in the news flows. We are interested in seeing if certain subjects get represented more, in relation to whom, and in what section of the newspaper. Ultimately, *is it possible to register the political alignment of these two news outlets –<span class="nyt">The New York Times</span> and <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span> – by analysing patterns of representation in teaser images?*

To investigate these questions, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the appearances of public figures in teaser images in the two outlets. First, we developed a pipeline based on a pre-trained machine learning model for face recognition to find images containing human faces. Then we isolated and indexed images containing faces. Images have then been algorithmically clustered based on similarity. Lastly, we manually labeled each cluster based on the person represented. The result is a dataset including hundreds of actors that are part of the coverage from the two newspapers. Given the focus on politics, in the essay we isolated the top 15 of most represented political figures and their correspondent articles.