Both visualizations offer a general overview of <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span> and <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span> publishing strategies, by centering the individual keywords and scaling up their relevance based on the number of articles associated with them. Another valuable approach is to work with these keywords to explore other intersecting keywords and news items published by the newspaper. In other words, we can compare countries with one another to find out if they share common keywords or news content throughout the data.

## What countries are related to each other through news coverage?

In the process of aggregating meta-keywords, the unique identifier of the article has been retained and associated with its country. This creates a relational dataset where each country is potentially connected with each other. These relationships express a degree of intensity depending on how many articles are common to two or more countries. They also express centrality, depending on how much a specific country is connected to others. As demonstrated above, centrality is a very subjective dimension depending on the location of the news outlet. Broadly expressed, countries that belong to the Western world are more central than other countries, with the exception of emerging economies and countries involved in armed conflict. <br/><br/>On the one hand, this means that there are countries that are seldom represented and also seldom connected to others. On the other hand, this means that marginal countries are always connected to central countries – as these places are reference points for the news outlet. These conditions render a global network of related countries less useful for inspection: countries are related to each other based on the most common and central ones. In this case, it is more meaningful to take a local approach. In the visualization below, local networks for each country part of the coverage can be generated. These networks show only the connections between the country currently in focus and its direct neighbors – only countries that directly share coverage are shown.

#### How to read:

Each network shows the amount of shared coverage between a selection of countries. The selection is based on the country in focus, displaying only other countries directly related. The secondary countries are also shown in relation to each other. The size of each node represents the overall amount of coverage about the country. Proximity between nodes expresses the degree of relatedness of two or more countries. The link between two nodes also has variable thickness representing the amount of coverage shared between the countries. The box below shows a preview of the content shared between two nodes. By clicking on one node in the network, the direct connection with other nodes is shown.
