<h2>The layered infrastructures of journalism</h2>
<div data-step="0" class="step">Journalistic convergence is the integration of news in a digital infrastructure (Pavlik, 2004). This process of assimilation does not influence only the format of news, but also the relationships between journalists and audiences on different levels. It is de facto a remediation (Bolter & Grusin, 1999), where digital media mirrors traditional ones. For journalism, remediation happens as the newspaper moves online to become a digital product. This transformation affects journalism as a system by triggering changes at structural levels. This map attempts to chart the impact of digitalization on the overall system of journalism by systematizing three fundamental infrastructural layers: the individual layer, the material layer, and the societal layer. These three levels should be understood as different spaces at which journalism happens, with different types of actors and interdependencies creating the complex ramifications that uphold the cultural and social role of journalism. 
</div>
<div data-step="1" class="step">
The individual layer describes the human dimension of journalism. Citizens and journalists are positioned on an axis that goes from usage to production. Citizens at the end of the “usage” axis are members of the audience. Journalism seeks to influence these citizens by modifying their social cognitions, such as attitudes and ideologies (van Dijk, 1995). At the end of the “production” axis there are journalists, citizens able to produce journalism: authors, editors, and other figures part of the newsroom. These newsroom workers are professionalized individuals able to follow editorial guidelines and strategies to produce journalistic stories. Their ability is directly tied and influenced by internalized organizational and ethical values, which results in their authority to exercise authorship. The influences of digitalization can already be seen at this level, with a new figure positioned on the axis spanning between production and consumption. Citizen journalists are individuals that do not formally belong to the journalistic profession but still practice forms of journalism using self-publishing techniques through online services and platforms like personal blogs and social media. These actors are rising to the foreground of journalism (Newman et al., 2025), playing into influence and online personality culture. These figures are somewhat disruptive as they tap into authorship without necessarily agreeing to the organizational values and boundaries imposed by the newsroom as a societal institution. This disruption is not necessarily negative, but sheds a light on the strong tie between the individual and society in regards to journalistic trust.The individual and societal levels closely co-exist with each other. For instance, both organizational values and publication practices are coordinated by the editorial board of the newspaper. Moreover, the direct influence of journalism on citizens causes public opinions to form as a result of the consumption of news, transforming individual readers into an audience. With the rise of digital media and citizen journalists the implicit trust granted by individuals to professionals is not given anymore. 
</div>
<div data-step="2" class="step">
At the scale of society, journalism does not collimate in the sum of individual pieces of news or individual authorial interventions. It includes the overall corpus of coverage, past and present, as well as the entire economic, organizational, and institutional structure and actors surrounding journalism. In other words, on this layer journalism exists as a social and cultural phenomenon. 
This is partially defined through the groups of people that are influenced by or influence the production of journalism. Arguably, the definition of these groups is only partially possible and in this context reflects the necessity to include within this picture at least a fraction of the actors related to the journalistic machine, namely direct and indirect stakeholders and the public opinion. These groups of social actors are the fundamental enabler or inhibitor of journalism and their access to its content is facilitated or gate-kept by the material manifestation of the medium.

In digital environments the extension and complexity of this layer is even greater than it used to be for traditional journalistic media. The bar for ownership is at the same time lower and higher than they used to be. Virtually anyone can own a website or a blog to publish news content, but only few centralized players own the infrastructure for circulation like social media, search engines, and AI companies. Again, this creates a disruption in the societal perception of journalistic work. For one thing, we should start considering the sheer amount of news and news-adjacent content published online. This content – legitimate or not – needs to be engineered to be visible and attract readers’ attention in a space saturated with stimuli. Given the externalization of platforms’ ownership, this competition happens within a specific setting and with rules that are not defined nor enforced by the editorial boards of news outlets. Authors and editors have to adapt their content to make it fit within a fixed infrastructure with opaque logics. This shift points to the renewed importance of materiality in news-making.

</div>
<div data-step="3" class="step">Hence, within the journalistic system, the material layer functions as a bridge between the previous two and – unlike them – is tied to specific cultural objects that serve as channels of representation and communication. Over the last centuries, this object has been the newspaper. The way articles are laid out and organized across a newspaper issue is responsible for casting the readers into specific relationships with the world and its events (Barnhurst & Nerone, 2001). 
Clearly, these relationships are connoted by editorial and authorial choices. However, the medium of print itself has undeniably afforded news some of its distinct material characteristics: tangibility, permanence, and linearity. After all, materiality itself is the interplay between content and its form – where one of the two comes into focus depending on the performances enacted by the work (Hayles, n.d.). Over the years the affordances of print have reinforced the positioning of journalism in a place of authority within societal discourses. The advent of digitalization has disrupted the linearity afforded by print. News articles have become digital objects: relational, intangible, storable, and programmable entities with a high degree of formal flexibility (Hui, 2013). These aspects entirely change the forms and modes of news circulation. With circulation, we consider all the editorial strategies and material infrastructure needed to distribute news content to the public. As previously mentioned, circulation has a clear social and individual significance in the exchange and consumption of public opinion (Raetzsch & Bødker, 2016) and the material layer is where news is curated and organized in particular constellations to facilitate its circulation and penetration in the public discourse. Arguably, the digital medium has very different requirements for the circulation of news. In particular, linearity has been exchanged with immediacy and relationality: news items can be rapidly accessed from different locations, linked to other online content, and ultimately extracted from their original context.</div>
<h2>The digital transformation of journalism’s material layer</h2>
<div data-step="4" class="step">In digital environments the circulation of news (and consequently its presence and relevance in our everyday lives) is not solely dictated by the editorial processes internal to the newspaper and the channel of distribution, but is subject to the external logics of web platforms such as search engines and social media. Broadly defined, digital platforms are modular environments capable of deploying third-party content into products based on clients’ demand (Hein et al., 2020). In other words, digital platforms are hyper-flexible containers of digital objects capable of reshaping themselves on human input. One common example of a digital platform is the search engine google.com, that indexes web content based on users’ search prompts allegedly returning the best match for any search. These external dependencies fundamentally reshape the ways news is produced and consumed in many ways. First and foremost because digital platforms are largely based on a transaction of data between service provider and client, with products becoming increasingly personalized as the customer provides data about themselves and their habits. This entails the need for standard practices to collect information, which effectively change the way news is written and distributed online. For instance, Search Engine Optimization (SEO) practices have become foundational guidelines to digital news as much as the “five W’s of journalism” rule (Richmond, 2008). These practices are engineered to push news content to the top of a search engine’s page and are based on the simple assumption that automated bots and crawlers visiting web pages need to easily identify content, including its main topics and key terms. Consequently, writing has to be remodeled following specific stylistic constraints. Titles need to be simple and must contain clear terms, stylistic nuances like metaphors should be avoided (ibid.). A news item where SEO strategies are successfully implemented has a better chance to be seen by readers. In certain cases, this creates two different versions of the same article: one for print and one for digital distribution. This example shows how the new material layer of journalism is now organized around the creation of standardized datasets of news, where each item presents a clear structure of content and metadata to facilitate its propagation across platforms. Content needs to be interpretable for humans and machines alike, with the latter being almost as important as the former.</div>
<h2>The anatomy of digital articles</h2>
<div data-step="5" class="step">
In this sense, digital news has to exist on two layers: the layer of content, designed for humans, and the layer of metadata, designed for machines. These two layers are not independent from each other, but coexist and merge in the tangible representation of digital articles. The content layer is rendered through our devices’ viewport and is widely heterogeneous in terms of formats: news articles are written text, audio podcasts, short video snippets or long video essays, as well as stories combining interactive elements, data, and multimedia artifacts. On the metadata layer, news is tightly structured independently from its format: machines are provided with publication timestamps, descriptive keywords, text snippets, and representative images. Each of these properties is the result of a careful editorial process, where the necessary aspects for encoding the information to make it machine-readable are embedded as part of the content. Using these pieces of data, modern browsers and platforms are able to decode and show content in different formats to the final user through the device viewport. These properties are not confined to the domain of metadata, but often made visible to readers, even used to personalize content, with specific news items being displayed over others or programmatic advertisements placed at specific points of the page. The digital traces left behind from this layer of data impact the reading experience of audience members. For instance, descriptive keywords are a feature primarily engineered to support internal indexing of articles, but – once displayed – might support in steering the reader’s interests and priorities in navigating through content. Moreover, unlike individual and societal aspects of digital news consumption, these traces are resilient and cross-culturally standardized due to their adherence to external infrastructures of circulation. In other words, the metadata layer of digital news is useful to visualize its broader consequences on individual readers. After building a partial blueprint of the material layer of news, the chapters included in this interactive essay will dive into one particular dimension of digital news-making. The goal is to reverse the transient and ephemeral nature of digital news through the creation of distinct pictures and snapshots of news coverage. These snapshots compose a wider horizon for digital news consumption with editorial and platform-related strategies coming to the foreground in showing and comparing the rhetorical and contextual rules of selected news outlets.
</div>
<h2>The Hyper-visual Times </h2>
<div>In reconstructing a partial blueprint of the material layer of journalism, we focus on three specific properties of news metadata: keywords, texts, and images. Keywords are terms used to index and archive news content. They are not necessarily visible to us, but influence our consumption by creating a relational network of items. How keywords are used also determines whether or not I will be able to find an item provided a specific query. Texts are headlines, bylines and textual snippets of articles included in the metadata. They are used to preview content to readers. Text written for online news websites tend to follow stylistic guidelines to help bot and crawlers parse content. Also, the headlines need to capture our attention on third-party platforms dominated by attention-economy. Images are pictures, drawings, or charts that visually represent the main topic of the article. News images are a notoriously powerful rhetorical device. In the digital context they serve a similar role to texts, by appearing as the first element in the article preview and battling for the reader’s attention.</div>
<h3>The geo-politics of news</h3>
<div>Meta-keywords are words that describe the content of digital articles for faster and better indexing within recommending systems. They range from very broad terms that repeat across articles to very specific ones that describe unique events. Among these terms, words related to geographical entities play a key role in marking coverage about places and regions in the world. This chapter focuses on how geographic keywords are used across the online coverage of two newspapers: The New York Times and Die Zeit. First, keywords that are related to geographic locations are extracted and preprocessed to reach a common standard for both publications. Then, other keywords related to these countries are extracted to investigate the overlaps and differences shown by the two newspapers in covering geo-political entities and connected topics.</div>
<h3>Text</h3>
<div>Articles’ titles and content have been reshaped by digital practices driven by algorithmic logics. Leaving behind purely stylistic choices like metaphors, important words and concepts need to be stated clearly and early in the title and story to facilitate crawlers in correctly identifying the core topics of the article. Using machine learning and topic modeling techniques, key terms have been extracted from one year worth of articles from The New York Times archives. As a result, we generated clusters of similar words showing how often certain topics are discussed throughout the newspaper coverage. In this chapter, these clusters have been visualized to allow for analyzing the relationships between different themes.</div>
<h3>Images</h3>
<div>News images influence our understanding of events (Martikainen & Sakki, 2021). This chapter focuses on images of people, as cultural artefacts built using long-established conventions of visual depictions (Griffin, 1999).

To delve further into analysing the people who are depicted the most might be interesting: What fields do they come from, how are these people portrayed, and what environments do they stage themselves in?
These people's ability to actively shape the discourse is a form of power. Additionally, the more images of someone exist and are published, the more 'real' they become. This raises many questions, particularly if we accept the premise that our sense of truth is shaped by photographs.

Where do the people depicted come from? (international vs. national/regional)
What is the proportion of populist party representatives? (Does it really correspond to "reality"?)
How does it compare to comparably sized parties? To what extent is the party's over all media presence distributed internally?
What is the balance of power in this “second reality” shaped by images? Are these worlds becoming increasingly divergent?

</div>

### References:

Barnhurst, K. G., & Nerone, J. (2001). The form of news: A history.
Bødker, H. (2015). Journalism as Cultures of Circulation. Digital Journalism, 3(1), 101–115. https://doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2014.928106
Bolter, J. D., & Grusin, R. A. (1999). Remediation: Understanding new media. MIT Press.
Carlson, M. (2020). Journalistic epistemology and digital news circulation: Infrastructure, circulation practices, and epistemic contests. New Media & Society, 22(2), 230–246. https://doi.org/10.1177/1461444819856921
Griffin, M. (1999). The Great War Photographs: Constructing Myths of History and Photojournalism. In B. Brennen & H. Hardt (Eds.), Picturing the Past: Media, History & Photography (p. pp.122-157). University of Illinois Press.
Hayles, N. K. (n.d.). Print Is Flat, Code Is Deep: The Importance of Media-Speciﬁc Analysis.
Hein, A., Schreieck, M., Riasanow, T., Setzke, D. S., Wiesche, M., Böhm, M., & Krcmar, H. (2020). Digital platform ecosystems. Electronic Markets, 30(1), 87–98. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-019-00377-4
Hui, Y. (2013). What Is a Digital Object? In H. Halpin & A. Monnin (Eds.), Philosophical Engineering (1st ed., pp. 52–67). Wiley. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118700143.ch4
Martikainen, J., & Sakki, I. (2021). How newspaper images position different groups of people in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic: A social representations approach. Journal of Community & Applied Social Psychology, 31(4), 465–494. https://doi.org/10.1002/casp.2515
Pavlik, J. V. (2004). A Sea-Change in Journalism: Convergence, Journalists, their Audiences and Sources. Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies, 10(4), 21–29. https://doi.org/10.1177/135485650401000404
Raetzsch, C., & Bødker, H. (2016). Journalism and the Circulation of Communicative Objects. 7(13).
Richmond, S. (2008). How SEO is changing journalism. British Journalism Review, 19(4), 51–55. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956474808100865
van Dijk, T. A. (1995). Power and the news media. In D. Paletz (Ed.), Political Communication and Action (pp. 9–36). Cresskill, NJ: Hampton Press.
