The internet has become the main infrastructure for news circulation with consequences on the cultural and social roles of journalism, as well as its material manifestations (Bødker, 2015). For decades, the printed newspaper, through its selection of articles, has served the purpose of casting readers in relation to the world’s events (Barnhurst & Nerone, 2001), ultimately influencing the way news can help individuals in constructing and interpreting the world (van Dijk, 1995). With digitalization, the newspaper has moved online and the relationship between readers, content and infrastructure has changed (Carlson, 2020). Contemporary news is entirely moulded on the characteristics of the digital, with visible consequences: digital-native news coverage is pervasive, fast, non-hierarchical, and therefore ephemeral. Fundamentally, it is neither us nor newspapers’ editors that decide anymore what piece of news we should consume and when: platforms and algorithms do. As a result, news can be encountered at any point, consumed, multiplied, become “viral” and then buried, forgotten under thousands of other pieces of content. In this sense, this shift from analog to virtual complicates the relationship between production, circulation, and consumption of news. It fundamentally rigs the logic of news-making, by eventually pushing immediacy as the staple value of journalistic production, with confusing and alienating effects on readers. However, if digital news is so flexible and ephemeral to slide through different types of platforms and interactions, it is also resilient enough to leave a concrete trace of its existence in the form of machine-readable metadata. This grants the observer a preferential position in looking at the unfolding of digital journalism: the archival of news content into structured digital objects creates the opportunity to navigate the traces and flows of news production and circulation. Across the chapters of this website, the material manifestations of digital news are brought to the forefront, its stylistic rules and features exposed. In particular, keywords, texts, and images are taken apart and showcased as the main features of news capable of traversing the multi-layered and multi-scale enterprise of contemporary digital journalism and returning a snapshot of it.
