
# The Geo-Politics of news

#### This chapter focuses on meta-keywords related to geographical entities across the online coverage of two newspapers: The New York Times and Die Zeit<span>1</span>. First, keywords that are related to geographic locations are extracted and preprocessed to reach a common standard for both publications. Then, other keywords related to these countries are extracted to investigate the overlaps and differences shown by the two newspapers in covering geo-political entities and connected topics.

<p id="places-optional-intro" class="optional"><span>A meta keyword is a term, composed by up to three or four words, used to identify the content of an online page. Meta-keywords are included as part of the meta-description of a web-page, a machine-readable representation of the page content. Online newspapers use meta-keywords to describe the content of an article through the depiction of its main themes, for instance: subjects, objects, and places. They do so mostly for internal use, to archive content or to power the website's own search engine and recommender system. Major search engines have dropped meta-keywords almost entirely in favour of different parameters (Galfi, 2012), meaning that meta-keywords do not serve a direct purpose for Search Engine Optimization. Only small search engines and social media still rely on these keywords to rank results based on humans' search prompts. In other words, if meta-keywords serve a strategic role for the publication itself, they probably follow consistent naming, but do not necessarily follow specific usage patterns, at least within the boundaries of the same publication.<br><br>These hypotheses have proven true for both newspapers considered in this chapter: the New York Times and Die Zeit,  For example, for the New York Times, terms that identify persons, objects, and geolocations follow a very tight structure. The way keywords are used in combination with each other is less telling, There is only marginal consistency in how keywords are associated with articles. In the case of the New York Times, meta-keywords are combined in more than 16.140 different ways. On average, articles are tagged with 8 to 12 keywords. However, the maximum number of keywords for one article is 71. Given these constraints, terms follow a defined spelling and are more or less easy to identify and aggregate. For this reason, meta-keywords are promising in showing news coverage from different perspectives. First and foremost, by zooming away from the level of the individual article while maintaining a focus on distinct parts of the overall coverage. Meta-keywords allow us to detach ourselves from time, the primary dimension for the analysis of news content. Instead, considering groups of similar and related keywords can give us insight on the choice of topics, their complexity and relation to other dimensions.</span></p>

Newspapers are important actors in the sense-making and consolidation process of geo-political borders (Ojala and Pantti, 2017). At a low level, articles frame geo-political issues and conflicts from specific angles both from textual and visual frames (cit.). At a macroscopic level, above the individual article, the importance of certain conflicts or issues could be established through the volume of coverage, as well as the complexity and diversity of terms used to index certain articles. Arguably, these editorial decisions all play a role in establishing a particular view of the world. Hence, this experiment focuses on comparing news coverage from the two newspapers on a quantitative level: *what do location-related meta-keywords say about the publishing strategies in comparing two online newspapers?*
