<h1 class="font-serif text-4xl my-6 md:text-5xl">The Geo-Politics of News</h1>

### This chapter focuses on meta-keywords related to geographical entities across the online coverage of two newspapers: <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span> and <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span>[^1]. First, keywords that are related to geographic locations are extracted from the article's metadata. Then, they are processed to match cross-publication. Lastly, keywords are visualized to show how frequent certain countries are reported about and to observe how countries related to each other, forming the geo-political outline of the two publications.

A meta keyword is a term, composed of a minimum of one up to four words, used to identify the content of an online page. Meta-keywords are included as part of the meta-description of a web-page, a machine-readable representation of page content. Online newspapers use meta-keywords to describe the content of an article through the depiction of its main themes, for instance: subjects, objects, and places.  Major search engines have dropped meta-keywords as indexing parameters almost entirely in favour of different meta-information (Galfi, 2012). This means that meta-keywords do not serve a direct purpose for Search Engine Optimization anymore. Only some search engines and social media still rely on these keywords to rank results based on humans' search prompts. Nowadays, meta-keywords are used internally, to archive content, power the website's own search engine or instruct recommender systems. In other words, if meta-keywords serve a strategic role for the publication itself, they probably follow consistent naming, but do not necessarily follow specific usage patterns, at least within the boundaries of the same publication.

These hypotheses have proven true for both newspapers considered in this chapter: <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span> and <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span>. For example, for the New York Times, terms that identify persons, objects, and geolocations follow a very tight structure[^2]. The way keywords are used in combination with each other is less telling, There is only marginal consistency in how keywords are associated with articles. In the case of <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span>, meta-keywords are combined in more than 16.140 different ways. On average, articles are tagged with 8 to 12 keywords. However, the maximum number of keywords for one article is 71[^3]. Given these constraints, terms follow a defined spelling and are more or less easy to identify and aggregate. For this reason, meta-keywords are promising in showing news coverage from different perspectives. First and foremost, by moving away from the level of the individual article while maintaining a focus on distinct parts of the overall coverage. Meta-keywords allow us to detach ourselves from time, which is intuitively one of the primary dimensions for analysing news content. Instead, considering groups of similar and related keywords can offer us insights on the choice of topics, their complexity and relationship to one another.

## Newspapers and Popular Geo-Politics
Newspapers are important actors in the sense-making and consolidation process of geo-political borders (Ojala and Pantti, 2017). At a low level, articles frame geo-political issues and conflicts from specific angles both from textual and visual frames (cit.). At a macroscopic level, above the individual article, the importance of certain conflicts or issues could be established through the volume of coverage, as well as the complexity and diversity of terms used to index certain articles. Arguably, these editorial decisions all play a role in establishing a particular view of the world. Hence, this experiment focuses on comparing news coverage from the two newspapers on a quantitative level: _what do location-related meta-keywords say about the publishing strategies in comparing two online newspapers?_

## Methodological note
Every article in the dataset is considered as one unit of analysis. For each article, keywords related to places are extracted and articles are aggregated based on the country. For instance, if two articles in the dataset contain keywords such as “Berlin” and “Hamburg” both articles will be associated with Germany and aggregated together. Instead, if one article includes keywords about more than one place such as “Germany” and “Switzerland”, this article will be included twice in the overall count: once for Germany and once for Switzerland. This approach allows counting how many times each country is mentioned in the meta-keywords of the overall coverage. More broadly, the relative count of meta-keywords to the overall coverage will show how geographical coverage is distributed throughout the body of articles.

[^1]: Focusing on geographic entities allows for comparison across news outlets, even outside the same country. In observing how meta-keywords are assigned to articles, both newspapers have shown consistent albeit different naming strategies. However, the different languages, combined with the different cultural and social landscapes, make a direct comparison possible only through a few shared aspects. One of those is location: both newspapers use meta-keywords related to places and consistently tag international news using these keywords.

[^2]: Names of persons are always structured according to Surname, Name (date of birth – date of death), geolocations follow different patterns, but also tend to be consistent: for example, cities are often followed by the bracketed country or US state.

[^3]: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/11/05/us/elections/results-abortion.html and https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/11/05/us/elections/results-marijuana.html
