Both visualizations offer a general overview of <span class="zeit">Zeit Online</span> and <span class="nyt">The New York Times</span> publishing strategies, by centering the individual keywords and scaling up their relevance based on the number of articles associated with them. Another valuable approach is to work with these keywords to explore other intersecting keywords and news items published by the newspaper.  In other words, we can compare countries with one another to find out if they share common keywords or news content throughout the data. 

## Popular Geo-Politics of News

In the process of aggregating meta-keywords, the unique identifier of the article has been retained and associated with its country. This creates a relational dataset where each country is potentially connected with each other. These relationships express a degree of intensity depending on how many articles are common to two or more countries. They also express centrality, depending on how much a specific country is connected to others. As demonstrated above, centrality is a very subjective dimension depending on the location of the news outlet. Broadly expressed, countries that belong to the Western world are more central than other countries, with the exception of emerging economies and countries involved in armed conflict. This means that there are countries that are seldom represented and also seldom connected to others, but also that marginal countries are always connected to central ones – as these places are reference points for the news outlet. In the map below, local networks for each country can be generated. These networks show only the connections between the country currently in focus and its direct neighbors: countries that directly share coverage with them. 

## How to Read the Map

The map below shows all countries represented in the coverage across the two news outlets.  Countries are connected to each other if they share articles with one another. You can switch between outlets by using the selector on the top right of the map. You can control the map by using the dropdown menu in combination with the card to the left of the screen. If you select a pair of countries, the coverage shared between the two will be shown in the card. The map uses the Natural Earth projection.
